vault documentation: updated architecture doc page (#16569)
hashicorp/vault: website/content/docs/internals/architecture.mdx

# Architecture

Vault is an intricate system with numerous distinct components. This page details the system architecture and hopes to assist Vault users and developers to build a mental model while understanding the theory of operaton.

~> **Advanced Topic!** This page covers the technical details of Vault. The descriptions and elements contained within are for users that wish to learn about Vault without having to reference the source code. Although not required, we encourage all users and operators to review the provided information before using Vault due to its significance in an environment.

# High-Level Overview

The diagram below illustrates the intricacies and distinct components of Vault.

[![Architecture Overview](/img/layers.png)](/img/layers.png)

Components are separated and considered as either inside or outside of the security barrier. The storage backend and HTTP API are outside of the security barrier, while all other components reside inside the barrier.

> When the Vault server starts, a storage backend is provided, making its data available across restarts. The storage backend, outside the barrier, stores encrypted data durably and is considered untrusted. The HTTP API must start similarly by the Vault server so that clients can interact with it.

Reviewer: This part can re-write better?  In a nutshell, the way it works is...

The storage backend is outside of the barrier (therefore, untrusted), so Vault encrypts data before sending them to the storage backend. So, even if unauthorized attacker access the storage backend, the data is encrypted that there is no use until it gets decrypted. The _barrier_ is the Vault's encryption layer, so barrier encrypts and decrypts Vault data. Therefore, the storage backend provides durable data persistent layer where data is encrypted (secure), and make data available across server restarts.

Author: OK, let me try rewriting.

a root key that is stored alongside all other Vault data, but is encrypted by another mechanism: the unseal key.

By default, Vault uses [Shamir's Secret
Sharing](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Shamir%27s_Secret_Sharing) to split the
unseal key into a configured number of shards (key shares or unseal
keys). A precise number of shards are required to reconstruct the unseal key,
which is then used to decrypt the Vault's root key.

![Unseal keys](/img/vault-shamir-seal.png)

Refer to the [Seal/Unseal](/docs/concepts/seal#seal-unseal) documentation for
further details.

The number of shares and the minimum number of shards required can both be specified.
Shamir's technique can be disabled, and the root key can be used directly for
unsealing. Once Vault retrieves the encryption key, it decrypts the
data in the storage backend, and enters the _unsealed_ state. Once unsealed,
Vault loads the configured audit devices, auth methods, and secrets
engines.

~> **Note:** The default Vault configuration uses a Shamir seal; however, Vault can be [auto
unseal](/docs/concepts/seal#auto-unseal) by a trusted cloud key management
system (KMS) or hardware security module (HSM) to increase security.

> All security-sensitive configurations for audit devices, auth methods, and secrets engines must be stored in Vault. Users with permissions can modify them and cannot be specified outside of the barrier. By storing them in Vault, changes are protected by the ACL system and tracked by audit logs.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The configuration of the audit devices, auth methods, and secrets engines are security sensitive that they are stored in Vault. Users with permissions can modify them and cannot be specified outside of the barrier. By storing them in Vault, changes are protected by the ACL system and tracked by audit logs.
```

Requests may be processed from the HTTP API to the core once Vault is unsealed.
The core manages the flow of requests through the system,
enforce ACLs, and ensure audit logging is done.

When a client first connects to Vault, the client needs to authenticate. Vault provides
configurable auth methods and offers flexibility within the authentication mechanism
used. Mechanisms such as username/password or GitHub may be
used for operators, while applications may use public/private keys or tokens to
authenticate. An authentication request that flows through the core and into an auth
method determines if the request is valid and returns a list of
associated policies.

Policies are just a named ACL rule. For example, the "root" policy is built-in
and permits access to all resources. You may create any number of named policies

> with fine-grained control over paths. Vault operates exclusively in an allowed-access mode, meaning the action is not allowed unless access is granted via a policy explicitly. Since a user may have multiple policies associated, actions are allowed when policy permits. Policies are stored and managed by an internal

Reviewer: Actually, there's more than allow, so let's removed "exclusively" part. 

```suggestion
with fine-grained control over paths. Vault operates in an allowed-access mode, meaning the action is not allowed unless access is granted via a policy explicitly. Since a user may have multiple policies associated, actions are allowed when policy permits. Policies are stored and managed by an internal
```

policy store. This internal store is affectedthrough the system backend,
which is always mounted at `sys/`.

Once authentication takes place and an auth method provides a set of applicable
policies, a new client token is generated and managed by the token store. This

> client token is returned to the client and is used to make future requests.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
client token is used to make future requests.
```
